# Reading Reflection: January 13th

## The Conditions of Flow

FLOW, to me, means the continuous physical movement, like a stream, or it's metaphorical use, the flow of thoughts. As soon as the psychologist explained flow in the dimensions of challenges and skills, with the help from Alex's tennis experience, the idea of optimal experience, though clearly stated in the very beginning, starts to make sense.

The author connected religious rituals to the pursuit of optimal experience fits well to the theory that such activities survived because they provided enjoyment. It's a reasonable deduction to an atheist. Evident statistics showing the connection between affluence, stable society, and happiness is commonly recognized. However, the section when the author tied flow to culture is the opposite of rational reasoning, because the argument almost entirely based on other anthropologists' descriptions about alien cultures. The author featured a careful selection of bizarre examples, either vindictive or joyful, to fit the contradiction that he tried to make. 

"The degree of the 'pursuit of happiness' indeed sounds like a noble benchmark to judge cultures. The claim that "one will experience joy even in a concentration camp" might not be a perfect analogy. But the multiple instances of imprisoned souls making their spirit free is not enough to be called joy. Later the highly condensed evidence used to claim that certain civilizations "were lucky enough to be among the principal players" is over-simplifying complex and diverse human history as a game of enhancing flows.

On the bright side - if we were to design tools for people to generate creative content, a matching game model would be a perfect way to assess the user's flow. If we were to study a user's motivation, level of concentration, level of skill, a set of challenges and corresponding rewards ought to be helpful props. Even better, if we could find indicators to quantify a user's optimal experience, pair with the actions causing the increase of decrease of joy. We are setting up a model that could predict a user's emotion,  and respond accordingly to continuously stimulate dopamine, guiding a user to the optimal experience.