# Reading Reflection: January 21st

Film photography vs. Digital photography

The irreversibility, as one of the differences between digital and traditional media, reminds me of the digital and film photography. As the medium used to hold the light information transferred from negative film to memory cards, the irreversibility of this craft disappeared. The cost of each press on the shutter button is so cheap that it almost can be ignored. Overall, it is undeniably a progressive change. The disappearance of the consumer film camera in less than a decade is the best proof. On the other hand, a critical voice, and I agree, pointed out that the creative process of "capturing the moment" became much casual as the physical medium of digital cameras, the memory cards get cheaper with higher capacity each year. 

One can say that the digital cameras empowered more people to be more creative. The casualty could have become part of the art form itself. But the same had happened to the professional craftsmanship. Industrial film and video cameras were part of the most lucrative motivation to drive the digitization. In the old days, the size of a film's budget is almost equivalent to the length of the film a director could create upon. Every scene, every line, and every take was carefully rehearsed and lighted. But now, over 100 takes for a shot doesn't even make the news. 

Same influence in still photography, and I felt it personally. I went back to film photography for a while during college after I found a lot of expired, unused Kodak 35mm negatives at home. The careful manual combination of shutter, aperture, and focus, the unknown after the shutter button is pressed, the expectation after the film is handed over for processing, and the surprises when finally seeing the processed photos. The emotional process is the very opposite of the experience on a digital camera. This process defines the craftsmanship of photography.

We can't deny the power brought by the reusable digital medium, either. When I was a news cameraman, my mentor taught me to keep the camera always rolling because "there is no point saving the battery or the memory if we miss the moment." His camera captured his colleague being shot in the leg covering the war. He also kept the camera rolling even when the crew were assaulted by the Chinese police. The reversibility itself became a new feature of the media/the tool to help us create.